Now, the chat screen, of course, needs a couple of elements, it, of course, needs a list of existing
messages, which is scrollable, but we also need the input field, which allows us to send a new message.
And for that, here under widgets, I'll create a new subfolder chat where I'll add messages.
The dart foul.
And that should be a state less widget, which will name messages where we can import material that
dart and here to goal is to output all those, you guessed it, messages.
Now we can use CloudFlare, a store for that.
So package cloud, forest or cloud, forest or dart, and then the good old stream builder, which we
saw in action before, to connect it to our fires, for instance, and then here to a collection, which
should be the chat's collection.
Now, previously I had some documents here in Chat's for different chats, but actually will only have
one chat in this entire application.
So therefore it probably makes more sense to name this collection, just chat and of course there for
all to make sure that in the rules it's just checked and not chat's.
So now I just want to have a chat collection and in the chat collection, I want to have my messages
so we can directly listen on chat, because that will be the collection and the messages will be the
documents in there.
And with snapshots, we therefore set up the stream.
Now we need the boulder where we get the context and the chat snapshot.
And here, justice, before we can check for the loading state so we can check if Chet Snapshot Connection
State is in the waiting connection state, in which case we could return a center widget where we basically
display a circular progress indicator and if we make it past the safe check, we're not loading.
So then I want to return my list.
You.
So here I display list view builder.
And for the item builder, we get the context and the index and then simply return, let's say again
a text widget with the appropriate chat text at the moment.
Now, for that, we need to know how many items we need.
So we also need the item count here.
And that should, of course, be checked snapshot.
DOT data, dot documents, dot length.
And then here we can output the appropriate text by accessing chat, snapshot, dot data, dot documents,
and since I repeated this, let's actually grab it and put it into a separate variable here.
Chad Dock's.
Is my documents array here, so we use chat docs here and chat docs here for to give an index and now
on every chat document, so on every message, in the end we should have a text, let's say, which
should be displayed.
So we want to output the text here.
This could be how we render our list of messages.
Now, back at the jet stream, Massachusetts should be rendered so here in the body, instead of having
that stream builder, which we had before, we can get rid of that and instead render a container,
let's say, where the child is actually a culham, where we then have children.
And the first children I want to have is my messages, which had we just worked on.
And for that to work, you need to make sure that you also import the message to start to file into
the chat screenshots file.
So with that, I'm rendering messages here and messages, of course, renders a list view in the end
and a list view inside of a column will not work that well.
You need to wrap this into an expanded widget, otherwise you'll get an error.
But with expanded, you make sure that the list view only takes as much space as available on the current
screen whilst still being scrollable.
So that should display some messages.
Let's reload the application.
And we see nothing here, of course, that makes perfect sense because we have no messages yet.
Let's maybe simulate a message by adding a new collection, and that is this Chet collection to which
I want to listen and we add a new document with a new audio ID.
And in there, a text field where I say hello.
So this now could be a message sent by another user and savior, you see hello appear here on the screen
because of our screen builder here in messages.
So that is working exactly as it should.
Next up, let's make sure we have a bar at the bottom that allows us to send a new message.